Name	Input	Antigen only input	Generation/output	Model Bucket	Architecture	Algorithm	Method	Application	Use case	CDR seq genneration	Scoring Metric	Scoring	Year	Citations	Disadvantages	Remark	Installed
Ab-Gen	Sequence	yes	Sequence	Sequence-Only Generative Models	LLM-GPT+RL	GPT-2 learns CDRH3 sequence distribution from OAS, added with Reinforcement learning for HER2 specifity with properties	GPT-2 learns CDRH3 sequence distribution from OAS, added with Reinforcement learning for HER2 specifity with properties	CDRH3 sequence generation	509 generated sequences were able to pass all property filters (for HER2)	Yes	Developability	multiple property scores were combined as the final scoring function for the augmented likelihood calculation, including HER2 specificity, FvNetCharge, FvCSP, HISum, and the minPR of predicted MHC II affinity (MHCII minPR).	2023	16	Has dependancy with NetMHCIIpan, and currecntly finetuned for HER2	Trained only on CDRH3. HER2-specific reinforcement learning, needed to be finetunned/RL for other targets. The model is conditioned to begin all sequences with SR amino acids (Serine-Arginine) following Herceptin framework. 	Has dependancy with NetMHCIIpan,which cant be installed as its not free. Although model checkpoint can be used
AbGPT	Sequence	no	Sequence	Sequence-Only Generative Models	LLM-protGPT2 extention	Fine-tuned from ProtGPT2, a foundational protein language model (PLM) trained on the entire protein space. Employs a GPT-2 Transformer decoder with 734M parameters. Generates full-length B-cell receptor (BCR) sequences, including both heavy and light chains, with a broader scope (length: 100–140 amino acids).	Fine-tuned on 57M natural BCR sequences	BCR repertoire generation with broder scope, further filtering steps needed for target specificity	Compared with natural BCR with the generated based on antibody properties	Yes	Perplexity	Perplexity/ likelihood of it being natural based on the training data	2024	1	No Developability assessment	Capture general protein principles while specializing in antibody hypervariability, enabling diverse BCR generation. Broad BCR repertoire generation. Ideally for continous sequence generation (ex. SRA-------- not SRA---A---P--Y) have to define custom logic for infilling	Yes
Antifold	Structure	no	Sequence	Structure-Aware Design	Fine-tuned from ESM-IF1	Inverse folding (sequence prediction from structure).  Temperature-controlled diversity (default: 0.20).	AntiFold is an antibody-specific inverse folding model fine-tuned from ESM-IF1, designed to generate sequences that fold into a target antibody structure while preserving structural integrity. Trained on 2074 solved antibody structures (SAbDab) and 147K predicted structures (OAS + ABodyBuilder2), with masking strategies to improve CDRH3 recovery.	Optimize CDR sequences while preserving structural integrity	Validation: Tested on: Experimental structures: 56 high-resolution X-ray crystal structures (RMSD < 2.5 Å) and Affinity prediction: Anti-lysozyme antibody deep mutational scan (D44.1 Fab) and 7 affinity-matured antibodies. Outperformed ESM-IF1, AbMPNN, and ProteinMPNN in sequence recovery and binding affinity correlation.	Yes	Amino Acid Probabilities & Perplexity (Structural Tolerance)	Amino Acid Probabilities:Predicts viable mutations that maintain structural stability. Perplexity : Measures how well a sequence fits the input structure.	2023	13	Needs bound structure	CDR-focused masking was employed while training	Yes
diffAB	Different modes	yes	Different modes	Structure-Aware Design	Diffusion model	SO(3) diffusion for side-chain orientations		Multiple application: Sequence-structure co-design, Fix-backbone design and Antibody optimization		Yes	Energy/affinity scores		2022	256	Limited test set	Limited test set	sudo for ANARCI
dyMEAN	Different modes	yes	Different modes	Structure-Aware Design	Graph based	-		Ag guided Ab design		Yes	Energy/affinity scores		2023	66	Dependancy on other standalone tools for score	-	Needs TMscore and DockQ
AntibodyGPT	Sequence	no	Sequence	Sequence-Only Generative Models	fine-tunned-ProGen2	NA	NA	Sequence generation	NA	Yes	Likelihood	NA	NA	NA	It just a finetunned model, doesn’t have a published paper	-	Needs docker
IgCraft	Different modes	yes	Sequence	Structure-Aware Design	Transformer	Inverse folding + CDR grafting		Optimize CDR sequences while preserving structural integrity		Yes	Multiple scoring options depending on the mode of usage		2025	0	-	handles multiple tasks (unconditional/conditional generation, structure conditioning)	sudo for ANARCI
p-IgGen	Sequence	yes	Sequence	Sequence-Only Generative Models	Autoregressive decoder-only (GPT2)	Trained on paired sequences, Fine-tuned for developability on TAP-approved sequences	Trained on paired sequences, Fine-tuned for developability on TAP-approved sequences	Generate high-quality, diverse antibody libraries with reduced developability risks.	Compared generated sequences with natural antibodies based on antibody properties	Yes	-	Doesn't have score generates developable sequences that pass TAP "safe" flag	2024	4	-	model to generate paired antibodies with explicit developability bias (TAP (Therapeutic Antibody Profiler)	Yes
Abdockgen	Structure (antibody+antigen)	no	Sequence	Structure-Aware Design	HERN	During docking, HERN employs a hierarchical message passing network to predict atomic forces and use them to refine a binding complex in an iterative, equivariant manner. During generation, its autoregressive decoder progressively docks generated paratopes and builds a geometric representation of the binding interface to guide the next residue choice.		Ag guided Ab design		Yes	Docking energy		2022	60	It has dependancy with DockQ	Retraining might be needed	Doesn’t need to be installed, script process the PDB and uses the model checkpoint. It has dependancy with DockQ
AbFlex	Structure (antibody+antigen)	no	Sequence+structure	Structure-Aware Design	EGNN	AbFlex was developed based on EGNN (Satorras et al. 2021), a graph neural network equivariant to 3D rotational and translational transformations. EGNN produces robust outputs regardless of the position or rotation of the input in 3D space. It is known that EGNN can learn 3D graph data efficiently without data augmentation by 3D transformation of objects (Satorras et al. 2021). By representing protein as a graph (Brinda and Vishveshwara 2005), EGNN can handle 3D protein structure and sequence simultaneously. We hypothesized that these characteristics of EGNN would be suitable for learning protein structures, especially where available structural data is scarce. AbFlex only uses Ca atom coordinates to represent the 3D structure of an antibody–antigen complex to reduce computational cost.		Ag guided Ab design		Yes	Binding score		2024	2	Too much dependancy on other standalone tools and only for CDRs, will give single optimal output	Assumes non-CDR regions remain unchanged upon CDR modification, Flexible CDR definition. Too much dependancy	Doesn’t need installation of the tool as such as it uses the model checkpoints, but highly dependent on foldX and rosettea for  binding energy calculation, otherwise will only generate PDB
AbLang2	Sequence	no	Sequence	Infilling/Mutation Models	LLM	Based on ESM2 architecture	an antibody-specific transformer-based language model (LM) designed to improve the prediction of non-germline (NGL) mutations in antibody sequences. It addresses the germline bias in existing antibody LMs	Residue likelihoods for mutation design. Restoring missing residues -  mutation engineering	shows better predictional power for non germline mutation leading to better affinity maturation	No	Residue mutation probabilities/Perplexity	-	2024	26	Infilling	Infilling of sequence can be handeled, hence a mutational likelihood analysis can be performed. Its not a generative model more like sequence restoration and mutational likelihood	Yes
AbMAP	Sequence	no	Embeddings	Embedding 	LLM	A transfer learning framework called Antibody Mutagenesis- Augmented Processing (AbMAP), which fine-tunes foundational models for antibodysequence inputs by supervising on antibody structure and binding specificity examples.	A transfer learning framework called Antibody Mutagenesis- Augmented Processing (AbMAP), which fine-tunes foundational models for antibodysequence inputs by supervising on antibody structure and binding specificity examples.	Generates embeddings of Abs which can be used fo ra wide range of tasks	For predictive models using the embeddings	No	-	-	2021	50	Made for embedding	Tool for protein embeddding, uses multiple foundational models along with its own algorithm to generate embeddings for Ab sequences	sudo for ANARCI
AntiBERTy	Sequence	no	Sequence	Infilling/Mutation Models	LLM-BERT	Masked language modeling (MLM) objective	AntiBERTy is an antibody-specific language model based on the BERT architecture, trained on 558M non-redundant antibody sequences from the Observed Antibody Space (OAS) database	Residue likelihoods for mutation design. Restoring missing residues -  mutation engineering		No	Masked residue likelihood	likelihood of it being natural based on the training data	2021	154	Infilling	Infilling  feature for filling masked sequences,  hence a mutational likelihood analysis can be performed. Its not a generative model more like sequence restoration and mutational likelihood	Yes
IgBERT & IgT5	Sequence	no	Sequence	Infilling/Mutation Models	LLM	Masked language modeling (MLM) objective	Initialized with ProtBERT weights, then fine-tuned on unpaired and paired antibody sequences for OAS. It uses masked language modeling (MLM) to learn contextual representations of antibody sequences	Residue likelihoods for mutation design. Restoring missing residues -  mutation engineering	 Used the predicted sequence (embbedings) to train multiple model for sequence recovery, binding affinity and more	No	Perplexity	-	2024	27	Infilling	Infilling  feature for filling masked sequences	Model checkpoint to be used
NOS +  LaMBO2	Sequence	no	Sequence	Hybrid	Autoencoders+diffusion	-		Antibody optimization		-			2023	142		Might have depandancy with diffab,rfdiffusion and lambo	-
ReprogBERT	Sequence	no	Sequence	Infilling/Mutation Models	LLM	BERT	ReprogBERT is a cross-language model reprogramming framework that repurposes a pretrained English language BERT model for antibody CDR (Complementarity-Determining Region) sequence infilling.	Given an antibody sequence with masked CDRs (e.g., CDR-H3), ReprogBERT predicts the missing residues conditioned on the rest of the sequence. Generates multiple candidate sequences (e.g., 100 samples per input) and selects the best based on metrics like perplexity (PPL-ProGen) or diversity (DIV).	Benchmarked against baselines including LSTM, graph-based models (AR-GNN, RefineGNN), and other BERT variants (ProtBert, EnglishBert).	No	Perplexity	-	2023	29	Gives perplexity score and needs to be retrained	Infers perplexity score from proGen model. Struggles with larger protein regions beyond CDRs.Dependence on pretrained BERT’s English embeddings, which lack explicit biological semantics.	Needs to be retrained, model checkpoint not provided
BioPhi	Sequence	no	Sequence and predicted humanization	Humanization	Transformer encoder architecture.	The Sapiens training procedure was based on masked language modeling, where the input “sentences” were amino acid sequences of antibody variable regions, and the “word” tokens were individual amino acid residues.	Sapiens is a deep learning humanization method trained on the OAS using language modeling. Based on an in silico humanization benchmark of 177 antibodies, Sapiens produced sequences at scale while achieving results comparable to that of human experts.	Humanization of non-human antibodies	The validation set of 25 humanized sequences paired with their known parental sequences	No	Human-likeness score	"OASis is a granular, interpretable and diverse humanness score based on 9-mer peptide search in the OAS. OASis, a humanness evaluation method that
reports human prevalence of individual peptides, together with a single aggregated score for an antibody as a whole. First, OASis evaluates the humanness of each overlapping 9-mer peptide in an antibody sequence in terms of human prevalence.
Such evaluation provides a granular and interpretable humanness report that highlights regions that present the largest risk.
To evaluate and compare humanness at the whole antibody level, we define the OASis identity score. OASis identity is calculated for a single antibody as the fraction of its peptides that pass a user-defined prevalence threshold. The prevalence threshold determines what fraction of the human population"	2022	161	For humanization not genneration	Heavy chain and light chain trained independently.	Web server can be hosted
